have you ever noticed how phone numbers
and movies usually start with five
five five followed by four digits
well decades ago phone numbers were
formed by using numbers
corresponding to the first two letters
of the geographical area
known as the exchange name let's say you
wanted to call pennsylvania
nine four thousand you would first dial
seven
three and then the nine four thousand
the seven
corresponded to the pqrs on the keypad
and 3 was used for the letters d e f
it was difficult to find an exchange
name that matched the 5
5 number it corresponds to the jkl
and one of the few words you can make
with any of those letters placed next to
each other
is klondike this number combination
wasn't used often
and klondike 5 was an old phone number
given to company advertisements
until it made its way to movies
eventually
area codes appeared and exchanged names
stopped being used
but 555 is still used in hollywood today
the north american numbering plan
administration was given the task of
handing out phone numbers
the numbers from 5550100
through 5550199 are reserved for
hollywood
this helped to ensure that movie fans
wouldn't bother anyone
if they tried calling the numbers they
saw on the screen now our phones have
gone from being bricks to paper thin
gadgets
yet sim cards don't seem to have evolved
much in the past few decades
a sim's job is to make sure the person
using the cell phone
is a legit subscriber they're the only
individual who's connected to a cell
phone tower through that number
sims store two pieces of data the
international
mobile subscriber identity and the
authentication key
they essentially help to carry out
secret communications
between your phone and your network when
the network recognizes and verifies your
phone
everything works fine this information
can actually be programmed into devices
nowadays
and some companies have added e-sims to
their newer phones
an electronic sim card can be
reprogrammed with your number
but it can't be removed from your cell
phone
if you want to change to a different
brand of phone you usually just take
your sim card out
and put it in your new phone but with
the e-sim
switching from one make a phone to
another can be really inconvenient
you'll have to carry another phone while
traveling abroad
to avoid roaming charges on your cell
for this system to become widespread
both manufacturers and phone carriers
will need to find a new standard
and that might take some time you might
also notice that your phone isn't as
snappy as it used to be
every time an update comes along some
apps get bigger
and their features multiply to make
operating systems
more attractive the updates come with
redesigns
and these features slow older phones
down
some people recommend waiting a week or
so after an update comes out before
installing it
instead of doing so straight away 20 of
updates have an initial period of
instability kind of like me so you can
just let others test the waters for you
if there's a problem you'll probably
hear about it
you might also notice very frequent
update requests
that's because as your gadget ages the
software needs to update to keep things
running smoothly
but one of the most important reasons
why phones need to update all the time
has to do with security sometimes you
accidentally download a document that
seems suspicious
that's because your hardware has
encountered something that's been
running on
outdated software to prevent this from
happening
companies try to protect your phone with
new updates
but it's not just for security purposes
software updates fix
bugs from previous versions they also
bring in new features to make your
device compatible with new programs and
gear
security features such as face id and
touch id
are important for your phone when you
try to unlock it
whether you're looking at your camera or
using your fingerprint
your phone compares the data it gets to
what you've saved there
according to apple there's a one in
fifty thousand chance of someone
falsely unlocking your phone with their
fingerprint and a one in a million
chance of someone unlocking your phone
with their face
[Music]
and there's a one in five chance of me
someday butt dialing you
sorry some researchers keep testing
these security features to see how
safe they are at one point they were
able to make
fake fingerprints to unlock phones but
it cost them a lot of money
when face id first came out other
researchers tried to compromise the face
recognition technology during a
convention
it took them less than two minutes they
took a phone from someone who was asleep
along with a pair of glasses then they
stuck two pieces of tape where the eyes
should have been
they turned the phone screen to face the
individual and it unlocked
i'm sure you've heard about phone
batteries exploding here's why it
happens
engineers use lithium-ion batteries in
phones
because they're light and hold a lot of
energy batteries have two electrodes on
opposite
sides one electrode is called the
cathode
and it holds the positively charged ions
the electrode that holds the negatively
charged ions is the anode
when your phone is charging the lithium
ions move from the cathode
to the anode but when you're using your
phone
they travel in the opposite direction
when the ions are moving
the anode and the cathode should never
touch so
there's a plastic sheet that prevents
the two electrodes from coming
into contact when the plastic separator
fails
uh-oh the anode and the cathode can
touch
and that's when the battery overheats
catches fire or
boom this can happen when a battery is
not very well designed
leaving your phone close to a heat
source can also cause the battery to
blow up
even dropping your phone can cause
damage to the separator
and allow those two electrodes to touch
but phone batteries don't explode very
often
removable batteries were popular in the
1990s and 2000s
but they seem to have vanished now in
old phones
those chunky little fellas are often
rectangular or
square shaped to make it easier to
connect and remove them
nowadays there are some more unusual
shapes for them out there
such as the l-shaped battery
non-removable batteries give phones an
elegant appearance companies have
replaced the cheap plastic bags with
metal and glass
seal batteries also have made phones
slimmer and sturdier
this is also how water-resistant phones
became possible
a device with fewer openings prevents
water and other particles from getting
inside
removable batteries took up more space
inside phones
because they needed an extra layer of
protection to shield them from everyday
impacts
when all that space became available
designers and engineers were able to add
other features wireless charging
speakers
and fingerprint sensors all now fit
comfortably in your phone
alongside irregularly shaped batteries
screens with notches have appeared
these are the little dark non-screen
areas right where your front-facing
camera
and microphone are located designers
wanted to
increase the surface area on device
displays without getting rid of any
features
so alongside the notch they placed icons
showing battery info phone signal
strength the time
and other things on the side of the
screen this allowed companies to create
taller screens
and get rid of borders this trick is
great for marketing too
since it's easier to sell a phone with
more screen space
hey call me maybe